I have returned to the woods, and, spent the hours of midnight fishing from a boat by moonlight, serenaded by owls and foxes.
yet this pond is so remarkable for its depth and purity as to merit a particular description.
a perennial spring in the midst of pine and oak woods, without any visible inlet or outlet except by the clouds and evaporation.
The sea, however, is said to be blue one day and green another without any perceptible change in the atmosphere.
I have seen our river, when, the landscape being covered with snow, both water and ice were almost as green as grass.
Some consider blue to be the color of pure water, whether liquid or solid.
Walden is blue at one time and green at another, even from the same point of view.
Lying between the earth and the heavens, it partakes of the color of both.
more cerulean than the sky itself, alternatingwith the original dark green on the opposite sides of the waves
How large a body of Walden water would be required to reflect a green tint I have never proved.
The water of our river is black or a very dark brown to one looking directly down on it
Paddling over it, you may see, many feet beneath the surface, the schools of perch and shiners, perhaps only an inch long
The shore is composed of a belt of smooth rounded white stones like paving-stones, excepting one or two short sand beaches
This is a delicious evening, when the whole body is one sense, and imbibes delight through every pore.
All our Concord waters have two colors at least; one when viewed at a distance, and another, more proper, close at hand.
I have seen our river, when, the landscape being covered with snow, both water and ice were almost as green as grass.
But, looking directly down into our waters from a boat, they are seen to be of very different colors. #bliss
I have discerned a matchless & indescribable light blue, such as watered & sword blades suggest, more cerulean than the sky itself.
Yet perchance the first who came to this well have left some trace of their footsteps.
The pond rises & falls, but whether regularly or not, & within what period, nobody knows, though, as usual, many pretend to know.
Every motion of an oar or an insect produces a flash of light; and if an oar falls, how sweet the echo!
In such a day, in Sept or Oct, Walden is a perfect forest mirror, set round with stones as precious to my eye as if fewer or rarer.
Nothing so fair, so pure, and at the same time so large, as a lake, perchance, lies on the surface of the earth.
Sky water. It needs no fence.
On land only the grass and trees wave, but the water itself is rippled by the wind.
I see where the breeze dashes across it by the streaks or flakes of light.
the calm at the end of a rainstorm of several days’ duration, when the sky was still completely overcast & the air was full of mist..
the slight undulations produced by my boat extended almost as far as I could see, and gave a ribbed appearance to the reflection..
In the hollow of my hand, are its water and its sand, and its deepest resort, lies high in my thought.
The faint silvery warblings heard over the partially bare and moist fields from the bluebird, the song sparrow, and the red-wing...
